We'll come back.
And welcome to this all important topic of collection.
What we look at in this section is collections.
What are the important interfaces which are present in the collection interfaces.
What are the important classes which are present in the collection hierarchy and how are they different.
What collection do you want to use.
In what scenario.
Those are the kinds of things that we would want discussed as part of this section.
So let's start with the basic question Why do we need collections in Joe.
The fact is the basic structure in Jawa every It's not really dynamic in the sense that once you create
an array you cannot really expand the size of it so you cannot create an array of 5 and make it an array
of say 6.
No that's not possible.
So once you have defined an area the size of the array would remain the same throughout.
If you want to add an element to all of the full area what you would need to do is create a new area
of a bigger size.
Copy the elements to it and add the new element.
So that's the only way you can add things to an area.
There is definitely a need for a data structure which is more dynamic and that's where the collections
come in collections.
I'd love to Addleman delete an element and a lot of other operations and there are a number of collections
which are present in Java a few of which we would look as part of the next we'd use in this section
the approach we will take in the sit in this section is we will understand the interfaces and the glasses.
So at a high level for us we would start with the important phases.
We would understand them in depth and then go into the specific classes.
So what are the important interfaces in the collection how key interfaces are very important because
they define what is allowed.
What are the options that are allowed and based on which you can actually set constraints for the implementations.
The basic interfaces which are the basic interface is collection so that the base collection based interface
for all the classes in the collection hierarchy it is collection the set interface extents collection.
So is the list interface.
However does that interface only allows two unique things.
It does not allow duplication to any implementation of the set interface should not have duplications.
So I should not have the same element as in blue eyes.
However in a list its a position based thing.
So you can have the same element present multiple times.
So set is all about unique things.
So it does not help the application whereas list is about a list of things it does not work if there
duplicate or not it only cares about the position each object is in.
If you look at a list it has methods which allow adding element by a specific position or you can delete
elements by a specific position or you can add elements without pursuing a position in which case it
added at the end of the list.
The other important interface which is present in the collections interfaces and it extends the collection
is new interface cool however is to support an order of processing.
So lets say I have a list of things to do and I want to order them in the way I want to execute them.
Then I would put them in a queue and I would start picking up the next one from the queue and I would
start processing it.
So let's say it's See I mean queues are used extensively everywhere.
Right.
So I have a list of tasks to be processed through program and they are in a queue and the queue allows
us to pick up the top mostly meant process it and then pick the next element processing and next element
and process it.
So thats basically a queue.
So we have seen three interfaces set list and queue all of these accidents collection thirty's for duplicate
messages for unique element listed for a list of things.
Q Is more for a queuing kind of scenario you want to pick up the earliest one and process it.
That kind of a scenario you would go for.
Q The other interface which is present in the collections is map the most important thing about the
map interface is the fact that it does not extend collection interface.
So even though map is considered to be part of the collections hierarchy collections generally discussion
about collections.
It does not extend a collection interface.
So the map is used to store key value pairs to a key aide.
I want to store five at geesey.
I have two.
So let's have a series of alphabet.
And I want to find out how many times each alphabet occurs so I can use the alphabet as the key and
the number of terms it is present as the value.
So A's present five times c present two times a map usually does present a key value pair kind of thing.
So a key anagram you and the key kinds of acts as a unique identify it.
Those are the important interfaces in the collection hierarchy.